HTML (HyperText Markup Language)

1. Browser sends a request to a web server which is a computer connected to the internet. The server sends a response back
    to the client's browser which contains all the website code which is then rendered inside the browser to display a website.

2. Static websites are the websites where files are sent from the server to the browser as is without any data manipulation.

3. HTML contains the content of the website. CSS applies style to the content. Javascript is responsible for adding functionality
    to the website (Making the website alive).

4. HTML (Hyper Text Markup Language) is a language that is used to describe the structure and content of webpage. It is 
    not a programming language. Web Browsers understands HTML and renders HTML code as websites.

5.
    <!DOCTYPE html>         : Tells the browser that this document uses HTML
    <html>                  : Every HTML documents starts with HTML tag
        <head></head>       : Head contains tags about the webpage that is not visible. Like title and css links.
        <body></body>       : Body is for all the elements that are visible on the page
    </html>

6. HTML5 uses strong instead of b element, em instead of i element. Use of newer elements is advised in HTML5. Its because
    b dosen't have any semantic meaning.

7. Use target = _blank attribute to open a page in a new window and target = _self to open a page inside current window.

8. Structuring HTML page:
    1. User <header> for header of page.
    2. Use <nav> to group together navigational elements.
    3. Use <article> for body of the content.
    4. Use <footer> for the footer of the page.
    5. Use <aside> for secondary information that complements the main information.

9. Semantic HTML is used to assign some meaning to content instead of just using div element for everything.


CSS Fundamentals

1.
    Selector--> h1 {
Declaration Block-->  [
           Property-->  color : blue; <-- Value
                        [text-align : center;] <-- Declaration / Style
                        font-size : 20px;
                      ]  
                }

2. Types of CSS styling
    1. Inline CSS : Define CSS inside the tag.
    2. Internal CSS : Define CSS inside head tag inside style tag.
    3. External CSS : Define CSS in an external file and import that file inside the head tag.

3. Text Properties
    1. font-size : Specify the size of font in px, em etc.
    2. font-family : Specify the family of font to use for an element. eg : sans-serif
    3. font-style : Give style to the font eg : bold, italic etc.
    4. line-height : A number without units. Creates space between lines of text equal to the number times font size.
    5. text-transform : Transforms the text eg : uppercase, capitalize etc.
    6. text-align : Aligns the text with respect to its parent element. eg : text-align : center

5. Combining Selectors
    1. p, li, h1 : Use , to apply same style to all the selectors.
    2. Descendant selector : Use space between selectors to select all the elements inside the parent selector. 
    eg: article header p {}. article->header->p.

6. Class and Id Selectors
    1. Use id="id_name" inside an element to use an id selector. Use #id_name to query it.
    2. Use class="class_name" inside an element to use a class selector. Use #class_name to query it.
    3. Difference between class and id selector is that id selector can only be used once and class selector can 
    be used multiple times.
    4. In real world we always use class instead of id because we are prepared for the future as classes can be reused.

7. Working with Colors
    1. RGBA or RGB rgba(244, 179, 63, 0.7) and Hexadecimal #f4b33f are two ways of defining colors in CSS. If we want
    transparencey then rgba must be used. Otherwise in real world we prefer hex notation.
    2. border : 5px solid blue; Applies border of width 5px all around the element.
        border-top : 5px solid red; Applies border of width 5px to the top of the element.
        border-width, border-style, border-color can be used individually too.

8. Pseudo Classes
    1. li:first-child selects the first child among all the elements which have a li tag.
    2. li:last-child selects the last child among all the elements which have a li tag.
    3. li:nth-child(n) selects the nth child among the elements. You can also pass odd or 
    even inside the arguments which will then select all odd or even elements.
    4. Descendant selector and Pseudo classes can be combined. eg : article p:first-child {}
    will select the first paragraph inside the article tag.

9. Styling Hyperlinks
    1. a:link is used to style links which have a href.
    2. a:visited is used to style visited links.
    3. a:hover is used to style hover link.
    4. a:active is used to style the link that is being clicked.
    5. Remember this by using LVHA notation.

10. Conflicts between selectors
    1. Highest to Lowest Priority (Specificity) : 
    !important -> Inline Style -> Id Selector -> Class Selector or Pseudoclass -> Element Selector -> Universal Selector.
    2. The styles which are crossed out in developer tools are the ones which are overridden.
    3. If an element selector has a pseudoclass then its priority becomes higher.

11. Inheritance and Universal selector
    1. Its a good idea to add font related styles to the body tag. Mostly the properties related to text get inherited.
    2. Properties can be overriden if the selector which comes after is trying to override a declaration. 
    3. * Universal selector is used to apply styles to all the elements which do not get inherited.

12. CSS Box Model
    1. Content : Text and Images
    2. Border : A line around the element still inside the element.
    3. Padding : Invisible space around the content and inside the element.
    4. Margin : Space outside of the element, between elements.
    5. Fill area : Area that gets filled with background image or background color. Basically everything inside and 
       including the border.
    6. Set margin : 0 and padding : 0 inside the universal selector to do a global reset before starting any project.
    7. Use either margin-bottom or margin-top to create space between elements. Don't mix them up. Use margin-bottom 
        if you can.
    6. Collapsing margins: When two margins occupy the same space, they DO NOT get added up, instead the larger one of the
        two is visible.

13. Adding margins and padding
    1. If you specify image dimensions in html and then if you specify only one of the dimensions (height / width) in
    the css declaration then other must be set auto for automatic adjustment.

14. Center the page
    1. First wrap the entire page inside a div and set some width to that div which is less than 100%. Then apply 
    margin : 0 auto; to center the container inside the page horizontally.
    2. If we want to center a bunch of elements then set { text-align : center } property on the parent element.

15. Types of elements
    1. Block Level Elements : Occupy 100% of parent element's width(eg: p, div etc). Box model applies as shown to the 
    block level elements.
    2. Inline Elememts : Occupy only the space that is necessary for their content. They cause no line breaks. Box model 
    applies differently. Heights and widths do not apply. Margin and Padding only apply horizontally.
    3. Inline Block Elements : Best of both worlds. Cause no line breaks, occupy only the space that is required and
    box model applies as shown.
    4. Images are inline-block elements.

16. Positioning in CSS
    1. The parent element of the absolutely positioned element must be set relative and the child must be set absolute.

17. Pseudo Elements
    1. They are not actually elements but will behave as elements in html.
    2. h1::first-letter {}. Using this syntax we can change the style of the first letter of the h1 however we want.
    3. p::first-line {} will allow you to style the first line.
    4. Adjacent Sibling Selector : h3+p::first-line {} Selects the first paragraph that comes after h3 tag.
    5. Before and After Pseudo elements are used to add small elements after or before some element without adding 
    additional element in the HTML flow.
    6. Every pseudo element is an inline element so in order to apply box model to it normally we should


CSS Layouts

1. Layout is the way that text, images and other content is arranged inside a webpage. We arrange web elements in a 
    particular way instead of putting them one after another in a webpage. There are 3 ways of building layouts.

    1. CSS Floats : This is the older way and is quickly being replaced.
    2. CSS Flexbox : This is used to build 1 dimensional layout in a row.
    3. CSS Grid : This is used to build complex 2 dimensional layouts. 

2. Whenever you set an element to float, everything else that isn't set to float, floats around that element. Specifying
    {float : left} will float the element to the left side of the container. And {float : right} will float the element
    to the right side of the container. Setting an element to float will make it as element is not even in the page but 
    they do have an impact on the surrounding inline elements and text unlike absolute positioning. Setting the element
    as float will make it as its height and width are 0.

3. Add clear property to an empty div or an already existing div to re-add height and width to floated elements. A better 
    way would be to add clearfix class to the parent element and set a css like 
    .clearfix::after {
        clear : both;
        content : '';
        display: block;
    }

4. Adding box-sizing : border-box to an element changes its box model and the padding and border width does not affect the
    height and width of the element anymore. Instead the height and the width remains the same and any padding that gets 
    added might affect the content dimensions which are inside the box but not the overall dimensions. The default 
    behaviour is called content-box but what we usually want is border-box.

5. The container which has the display : flex property is called the flex container and its children are called 
    flex-children. Each flex item only takes up the space that is necessary for the content. The max height of each
    flex item depends upon the largest height among all flex items.
    If you set align-items : center, it will center each flex item vertically. By default align-items is stretch. Align Items
    can also be flex-start and flex-end.
    If you set justify-content : center, it will center each flex item horizontally. justify-content could also be
    set to space-between to set equal space between each flex item.

6. Use align-self on the flex item to postion in inside the flex container.
    Default order of every flex item is 0. Set order : -1 to bring it to the start.
    Use gap property inside the flex container to add gap between flex items.
    
7. flex-basis : 100px gives width to each flex item. flex-shrink : 1 allows the flex item to shrink in order to fit the 
    page. Setting flex-shrink : 0 will give the flex-basis width to each element even if they overflow. flex-grow 
    property determines whether the flex-item is allowed to grow or not. Use flex : 1 instead of flex-grow or flex-shrink.
    flex : flex-grow flex-shrink flex-basis shorthand. e.g. flex 0 1 200px;

8. Just like in flexbox we have flex-container and flex-items, in CSS grid we have grid-container and grid items. Use 
    display : grid to specify the display as grid and grid-template-columns : 250px 150px will create 2 columns of width 
    250px and 150px and asjust all elements inside of it. grid-template-rows : 200px will give a height of 200px to the 
    row. Use column-gap and row-gap properties to specify space between columns and rows.

9. Grids contain grid lines which start from 1 to 1+numCols and 1+numRows which then divide the layout into grid cells.
    Each grid cell may or may not contain some content. Gaps between grid columns and grid rows are called gutters.
    Grid tracks are either an entire row or an entire columnn.

10. Giving a column width as 1fr will make that column occupy all the available space. So use fr for column sizes instead
    of pixel values. grid-template-columns : repeat(4, 1fr) means repeat a columns 4 times and give each one a width of 1fr.

11. Placing and Spanning Items
    grid-column : 2 / 3 : Start from column 2 and go till row 3. 
    grid-row : 3 / -1 : Start from row 3 and go till end.
    grid-row : 4 / span 2 : Start from row 4 and go ahead for 2 units. grid-row : 4 / 6 will also give the same results.

12. Use justify-content to align tracks inside grid container horizontally.
    Use align-content (NEW PROPERTY) to align tracks vertically inside grid container.
    Instead of flex-start and flex-end just use start and end when using css grid.
    Use align-items and justify-items (NEW PROPERTY) to move around the content inside grid cells.
    Use align-self and justify-self to align items themselves. 

13. Flexbox and Grid are supposed to work with each other. When working with just one row, use flexbox. When working with 
    an entire page layout, use css grid.
